You now know how to create a simulation
model in the analytic software platform.
You also know how to run the model and
interpret the output.
To create these models we have
made a critical assumption
about the source of uncertainty.
We took the probability
distribution of the uncertain
input variables as something
that was given to us.
Remember the other booking problem
that we have been discussing?
In that problem,
there are two sources of uncertainty.
The demand for seats in the flight and
the numbers of booked passengers
that actually show up.
Or assumptions were that the demand for
seats follows a Poisson distribution
with an average of 150 passengers.
We also assume that the show-up process
could be modeled with
a Binomial distribution.
These are probably pretty
good assumptions, but
you might be wondering how
in general we could come up
with the right functions to model
the uncertainty of key input variables.
That's what we're going to
learn in this video.
As he have mentioned before,
uncertainty comes from variability.
When we say that the average demand for
a flight is 150 passengers,
we don't expect that on every single day
the demand will be exactly 150 passengers.
This is the difference between
an average value and a constant value.
So, what we're saying,
is that the demand varies and
that it is possible to
calculate an average.
An average value is good information but
we want more.
We want to know how the demand varies.
They key is to estimate the probability
of distribution function for
critical inputs to a simulation model.
And the way we are going to do that
is by analyzing historical data.
Locate and open the Excel file
flight over booking data.
This workbook contains
two years of data for
the flight that we
are using as an example.
The first column has a date,
the second column the demand, the third
column has the number of passenger's vote.
The fourth column has a number of
passengers that actually showed up, and
the fifth column has a fraction of
the book passengers that showed up.
You can see that the demand
varies from day to day.
You can also see that the fraction
of passengers that show up for
their flight also varies
from one day to another.
Those are the two sources
of variability and,
therefore, also the two
sources of uncertainty.
In cell H-1 we have calculated the average
demand, which is about 150 passengers.
The show up rate of 92% is in cell H-2.
If we look at the formula in H-2 we can
see that the show up rate is simply
the average of the fraction of booked
passengers that have shown up for
the flight in the two years of data.
Generally speaking, simulation models
do not use historical data directly.
The idea is to use the data to create
a so-called probability distribution
function for each variable and then use
the function for the simulation model.
The process of identifying an appropriate
probability distribution function for
a variable for which we have historical
data is called Distribution Fitting.
The analytics of a platform includes
a distribution fitting tool.
To use this tool we need to
start by selecting the cells
where the historical data is.
So let just start with the demand and
select cells B2 to B731.
Know that in this case, I did select the
name of the variable which is in cell B1.
Now, we go to the ASP tab and
in the tools group we find fit.
Click on fit and
the fit options dialogue appears.
There are two general types of
this distribution functions,
continuous and discrete.
In this case we have discrete data and
we choose the discrete option.
This is the only option
that we're going to change.
We will leave the other options
under their full values.
Click the fifth button and
the results windows is displayed.
The results window shows
the comparison chart.
This chart compares the frequency
distribution of the historical data in
blue and the frequency of the proposed
distribution function in pink.
The idea is to visually inspect how well
the proposed function fits their values.
In this case the analysis is suggesting
a Poisson distribution with a mean
value of 150.4 passengers.
Other alternatives are shown in
the left panel of the window.
These alternatives are shown
in order of fitness.
So, the analysis is suggesting
that the Poisson is the best fit,
followed by the negative Binomial.
We're going to keep
the Poisson distribution as it
looks like a good
representation of the demand.
If we close this window,
we are asked whether we want to
accept the fitted distribution.
Say yes,
the ASP then allows you to place the side
function somewhere on the spreadsheet.
Place it in cell H4.
We can verify that H4 now contains
this signed Poisson function
with an average of 150.4.
For the show up rate the processes
are slightly different.
In our simulation we model the show
up rate as a Binomial distribution.
The Binomial distribution makes a lot of
sense because given the number of trials
and the probability of
success in each trial.
The distribution represents the frequency
of the number of successes.
The number of trials in our context
is the number of booked passengers.
Success means that the passenger
shows up for the flight.
Or best estimate of the show up rate
is not 92% which we've found by
averaging the historical percentage
of passengers showing up.
So we have a an estimate of
the probability of success.
We also have the number of trials because
the number of booked passengers is known.
That means that we just need
to verify that the number
passengers that show up for
the flight follow a binomial distribution.
We can use the fit tool to do this.
Select the data on column D and
click on fit.
Choose discrete for the type of
distribution and click on failed.
The analysis shows that
the best distribution for
this data is indeed
a Binomial distribution.
ASB shows that the parameters
of this distribution are at 339.
For the number of trials and point three
nine for the probability for success.
However, these numbers are not
meaningful because we have
already estimated the show up rate and for
each flight we know the number of trials.
That is we know the number
of booked passengers.
The distribution fitting
process has helped us verify
that the Binomial distribution is
appropriate for the purpose of modeling
the number of passengers that show
up out of a number that are booked.
Distribution fitting is a very important
tool to convert data into probability
distribution, for instance,
that can be used in a simulation model.
It is possible to run what could
also be considered as simulation
using historical data.
And this is sometimes done to test how
a policy who have performed in the past.
But distribution fading along with
simulation allows us to create
many scenarios based on
what happen in the past.
This is the most effective use of data in
the context of building simulation models.